 Dronetology aims to define the knowledge necessary for a UAV to operate autonomously and to infer new knowledge to improve the efficiency and safety of the mission. As Dronetology is a UAS domain ontology, it also defines concepts regarding UAS components, typologies, missions, maintenance, airspace integration, pilots and compliance regulations.

Dronetology is part of the thesis Systems and technologies for providing autonomy to unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) based on ontologies / Sistemas y tecnologías para dotar de autonomía a vehículos aéreos no tripulados (UAV) basadas en ontologías.

Dronetology is the domain ontology used to derive two UAS applications:

    Sensor data harvesting: UAS become a mobile sink to gather data from Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN). The autonomous harvesting flights are implemented using the application ontology, denoted as Dronetology-sdh, which infers commands from data that are recollected from external sources and inserted in a local knowledge base. Dronetology-sdh and the harvesting system are described in the article An Ontology-Based System to Collect WSN-UAS Data Effectively.
    Collision avoidance: Airspace safety is a priority, and UAS traffic integration must preserve aircraft separation and operations regulation compliance. Collision avoidance systems (CAS) are a key component in integrating a high number of UAS into the airspace in a safe way. Dronetology-cas is the application ontology integrated in the CAS, denoted DroS, that allows autonomous decisions according to the knowledge inferred from the data gathered by the UAS. DroS and Dronetology-cas are described in the article An ontology-based system to avoid UAS flight conflicts and collisions in dense traffic scenarios 
